Document release process (#754)
fairlearn/fairlearn: docs/contributor_guide/release.rst

.. release_guide

Release Process
---------------

This page outlines the process for creating a new Fairlearn release.

> The following steps must be performed on a clone of Fairlearn, not
> a fork.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following steps assume git remote's `origin` points to
`fairlearn/fairlearn`.
```

Author: Thanks. Have updated.

#. Create an annotated tag using the command at the branch point:

>     :code:`git tag -a v<x.y.z> -m "Branch point for v<x.y.z> release"`

Reviewer: interesting, I'd assume you'd tag the branch, not `main`, as in first branch, test, then tag. Creating the tag has a few consequences for bots, and I think they should be created kind of as a last step.

Author: We can certainly do that instead. Tagging the branch point may just be leftover paranoia from my days working with CVS.

#. Push the tag to GitHub:

    :code:`git push origin v<x.y.z>`

#. Create the branch for the release:

    :code:`git checkout -b release/v<x.y.z>`

#. On the release branch:

    #. Update the version in `__init__.py` to `x.y.z`

>     #. Update the version in the ReadMe

Reviewer: These should be PRs to that branch. Why do we have the version in the readme? :D

Author: Whether or not they're PRs depends on whether you make the changes before or after publishing the branch :-)

The ReadMe currently has a "The current stable release is ...." sentence, which is what needs updating.

Reviewer: > The current stable release is ....

I mean I don't think we need such an information in the README, but not related to this PR I guess.

> Whether or not they're PRs depends on whether you make the changes before or after publishing the branch :-)

Ideally "creating a branch" would mean
- create a branch
- push

and nothing else. This way it's easier to keep track of the changes through PRs.

Author: Fair point on doing the PR on the release branch. I have tweaked the steps to reflect that.

> #. On the `main` branch:

Reviewer: same, changes should be PRs

Author: It states what the current release is. We can certainly talk about changing that, but this reflects the current process.

    #. Update the version in `__init__.py` to `xy.z+1.dev0`

>     #. Update the ReadMe to link to `v<x.y.z>`

Reviewer: why does readme refer to anything?

    #. Check `docs/conf.py` to make sure that `smv_tag_whitelist` will pick up the
       new release
    #. Update `docs/static_landing_page/` so that all the links point to the new release

#. Run the `release pipeline <https://dev.azure.com/responsibleai/fairlearn/_build?definitionId=60>`_

    #. Ensure that you have selected the correct release branch
    #. Run first on 'Test' which will upload to <https://test.pypi.org>

>     #. Finally, run the release pipeline set to 'Production' which will upload to <https://pypi.org/>

Reviewer: This is a good first version for the docs, but I think it'd be nicer if we had something which is triggered by a commit marker, and it's done in a PR instead of manually running the workflow.

Author: Agreed. There's definitely too much manual stuff left in the above.

.. release_guide

Release Process
---------------

This page outlines the process for creating a new Fairlearn release.
The following steps assume git remote's `origin` points to
`fairlearn/fairlearn` (in practical terms, that the work is being
done on a clone of `fairlearn/fairlearn` and not on a fork).

#. Create the branch for the release:

    :code:`git checkout -b release/v<x.y.z>`

#. Push the branch to GitHub:

    :code:`git push -u origin release/v<x.y.z>`

#. On the release branch, create a PR to:

    #. Update the version in `__init__.py` to `x.y.z`
    #. Update the version in the ReadMe

> #. Run the `release pipeline <https://dev.azure.com/responsibleai/fairlearn/_build?definitionId=60>`_

Reviewer 2: This is the part which requires manual approval from you or me, right?

Author: I just saw you filed #757  .... we might well be the only ones who can even queue the release.
